doc: tilebuffer tutorial (#245)
AmigaPorts/ACE: docs/programming/palette.md

# Using Palettes

## Loading Palettes in ACE

ACE currently use **.gpl (Gimp Palette)** as palette input. [Full spec here](https://developer.gimp.org/core/standards/gpl/).

To be complete, at the time of writing, ACE's palette converter can handle following palette formats:
  - GIMP palette file (`.gpl`)
  - Adobe Color Table file (`.act`)
  - ProMotion NG palette file (`.pal`)

Because **.gpl** is from the opensource world, this article will focus on it.

## Extracting .gpl palette from your tools.

> ### From aseprite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### From Aseprite
```

> You migh have to apply plugin [Aseprite Script: Amiga OCS/ECS Color Palette Mixe](https://prismaticrealms.itch.io/aseprite-script-amiga-ocsecs-color-palette-mixer) to align png and palette to amiga capacity/rgb colors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might have to apply addon [Aseprite Script: Amiga OCS/ECS Color Palette Mixer](https://prismaticrealms.itch.io/aseprite-script-amiga-ocsecs-color-palette-mixer) to align png and palette to amiga capacity/rgb colors.
```

> You need to add a add on just process to this installation : https://github.com/behreajj/AsepriteAddons/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to add an addon just process to this installation : https://github.com/behreajj/AsepriteAddons/
```

Then go to `File > Script > dialogs > palette > gplExport` and put your `.tpl` into your `res` folder.

NOTE: in asesprite you can also save directely in `.act` format.

> ### From Gimp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### From GIMP
```

_To be completed_

## Loading palette into your game

You need to append your `CMakeLists.txt` file and add at the end. It loads and converts the palette and then use it to convert your graphic file.

```cmake
# Convert palette and background image
convertPalette(${GAME_LINKED} ${RES_DIR}/mypalette.gpl ${DATA_DIR}/mypalette.plt)
convertBitmaps(
  TARGET ${GAME_LINKED} PALETTE ${RES_DIR}/mypalette.gpl
  INTERLEAVED SOURCES ${RES_DIR}/YourTiles.png
  DESTINATIONS ${DATA_DIR}/YourTiles.bm
```

Then in your code :

```c
// GAME_BPP is your number of color choice - 4 for 16 colors, 5 for 32 colors
#define GAME_BPP 5
// declare palette G
static UWORD s_pPalette[1 << GAME_BPP];
// [...]
void gameGsCreate(void) {

>     // [...]
>     // Load your palette
>   	paletteLoadFromPath("data/mypalette.plt", s_pPalette, 1 << GAME_BPP);
>     // One way to apply palette, copy it to the 2 view ports
> 	memcpy(s_pVpScore->pPalette, s_pPalette, sizeof(s_pVpScore->pPalette));
> 	memcpy(s_pVpMain->pPalette, s_pPalette, sizeof(s_pVpMain->pPalette));
>     // [...]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // [...]
    // Load your palette
    paletteLoadFromPath("data/mypalette.plt", s_pPalette, 1 << GAME_BPP);
    // One way to apply palette, copy it to the 2 view ports
    memcpy(s_pVpScore->pPalette, s_pPalette, sizeof(s_pVpScore->pPalette));
    memcpy(s_pVpMain->pPalette, s_pPalette, sizeof(s_pVpMain->pPalette));
    // [...]
```
